User1:So how do you come up with a secular scientific interpretation  of
reincarnation?||User2: Have you ever heard about the quantum suicide  thought
experiment? Suppose that there are near-infinite parallel universes.  There are
versions of you in some of them - people who are exactly identical  to you and
each other. It’s meaningless to ask which of them **you are** because  you’re
all of them at once. *YOU* are the mathematical pattern, not the atoms, anything
that  instantiates that pattern is you. So if you shoot yourself, you won’t die,
because you can’t have the experience of not existing.  You’ll just find your
thread of consciousness **waking up** in those universes  where the gun jammed.
Or where a sudden gust of wind knocked you over and out  of the bullet’s path.
Total immortality.||User1: How does that imply reincarnation?|| User2 Cause I
don’t believe in infinite parallel universes, or infinite versions of you. But
your consciousness can transfer to a being that’s slightly different from you.
That happens every moment, the atoms in your brain never stay in exactly the
right place. So when you die in our universe, which is the only one you are,
your consciousness **wakes up** into the other being whose internal pattern is
most like yours.|| User1:Then how come people don’t all have each other’s
memories?|| User2:Even in Buddhism, reincarnation isn’t a transfer of souls.
It’s a transfer of karmic bundles. Suppose that you’re violent and greedy your
whole life, and then you die. You *wake up* in the consciousness of the most
similar being you can find. Maybe it’s a wolf, or a praying mantis. But suppose
you use your reason and really lean into the purely human virtues. Then you’re
basically guaranteed to *wake up* as another person. Not that they’ll have your
memories or anything. They’re just whose qualia you’ll be experiencing|| User1:
So your thread of consciousness can never wink out of existence|| User2: Of
course it can, that’s the whole point of Buddhism. You need to become nothing,
gradually, naturally, in a way where each step is causally linked to the step
before. Then, when you die, your consciousness won’t continue at all. It’ll just
stay nothing. Nirvana! Seems pretty straightforward to me. I don’t know why
everyone else keeps saying that Buddhism has *supernatural elements* or parts
that are *hard to square with modern science*||
